# CS360MobileArchitectAndProgramming
This app was designed to allow users to track upcoming events in their life, be they repeating events, like exercise sessions, or one-off events such as an upcoming dinner outing.  The app was designed with security in mind, initially loading to a login screen where the user can create a new user account with a specific username and password or login using an existing user.  After login the app loads to an events screen that displays all events already stored in the local database that are associated with the username that is logged in.  Additional events can be created in a pop up window that appears when the user taps the button on this screen for creating new events.  The design of the app is to also bring up event details when an event is tapped on in the grid view with its associated details in a pop up window that includes buttons for deleting or updating the event with new information.  The color scheme of the app in general is keeping with a “dark screen” theme that is in general easier on the eyes using white text on black background most of the time.  The events in the grid view are currently backed on light grey with black lettering but this may yet be adjusted in future versions.
My approach to coding for an app is generally the same process I employ for all software.  Starting with an initial idea for an app that may have a niche, my first step is to research user needs and desires for that type of software along with what is available already in the marketplace that may fulfill those needs.  That research leads directly into planning what is needed, in the case of the app, I still like to start with a written approach of what each screen will include and what functionality and/or connectivity those elements will need to have.  After that a rough illustration of the appearance of the various screens and any additional decisions on color schemes and the like is my next step.  From there the code necessary for those elements to function and interact as described in that planning can be planned for and roughly stubbed out.  Finally, from there the various parts can begin to be actually coded along with the inclusion of commenting and general documentation.  My testing/coding approach from there is to create small bite-sized but fully functional portions and test on emulator as I go.  I find issues are easier to find and adjustments to make if I’m only tackling and testing small portions of the code at a time.  Once fully implemented more comprehensive testing of the whole becomes important.
The most innovative part of my current event design is the details pop up window for individual events.  The same basic pop up window is used for creating new events or viewing details and making updates or deletions of existing events, adjusting what is shown on the pop up window based on the context of what user interaction caused it to come up.  This is not fully implemented yet as it still has bugs that need to be tackled in upcoming versions.  The app uses a sqllight database to track both login and password for accounts as well as event details for users.
